[ACR-1579] Add machine-learning-training docs (#1221)
Samsung/tizen-docs: docs/application/native/guides/machine-learning/machine-learning-training.md

# Machine Learning Training

> Machine Learning Training allows to construct, control and train a machine learning model in Tizen devices.

Reviewer: Machine Learning Training `API/system/....`?

Please note that:

* This feature remains experimental for Tizen 6.0 and is not full-fledged yet for every needs.
* Every example code is not fully handling error for brevity. Error should be handled more extensively then example code written here.

## Prerequisites

To enable your application to use the machine learning training functionality:

> 1. To use the functions and data types of the Machine Learning Inference API, include the `<nntrainer.h>` header file in your application:

Reviewer 2: Machine Learning Inference API
change to train

Author: Done

```

### Dataset

Dataset is in charge of feeding data into the model.
It can either be created from callback function or created from a file.
Detail will be discussed in [upcoming](#prepare-model) section.

```c
// Create dataset
ml_train_dataset_h dataset;
ml_train_dataset_create_with_generator(&dataset, generator_train_cb, generator_valid_cb, generator_test_cb);

// configure dataset
ml_train_dataset_set_property(dataset, "buffer_size=100", NULL);

// after set dataset to model,
// you do not need to destroy dataset since ownership is transferred to the model.
ml_train_model_set_dataset(model, dataset);
```

## Construct Model

To run the model, you need to construct model. Model can be constructed with `ml_train_model_construct`.
If you have file that describe model, the file can be used to construct initially with `ml_train_model_construct_with_file`.
Even if you constructed model from a file, you can switch/modify/add each component with set of given apis until you compile with `ml_train_model_compile`.

### Construct Model from the Description File

As of now, only `*.ini` is supported to construct model from a file.

#### Create Model from ini Format

> There are special sections refering to `model` and `dataset` respectively [Model] and [Dataset]

Reviewer 2: maybe need to add links [Model] and [Dataset]

   - You can validate and test your model during train process easily by define the dataset.

Please note that:

* Every example code is not handling all the errors for brevity. Error should be handled more extensively compared to the example code written here.

## Prerequisites

To enable your application to use the machine learning training API:

1. include the `<nntrainer.h>` header file in your application:

   ```c
   #include <nntrainer.h>
   ```

2. include the following features in your `tizen-manifest.xml` file:

   ```xml
   <feature name="http://tizen.org/feature/machine_learning">true</feature>
   <feature name="http://tizen.org/feature/machine_learning.training">true</feature>
   ```

3. In case of saving/loading model files from the outside of the application's own resources, the application has to request permission by adding following privileges to the `tizen-manifest.xml` file:

  ```xml
  <privileges>
    <!-- For accessing media storage -->
    <privilege>http://tizen.org/privilege/mediastorage</privilege>
    <!-- For accessing external storage -->
    <privilege>http://tizen.org/privilege/externalstorage</privilege>
  </privileges>

>   ```

Author: Done

> ## Building Blocks

Author: Done

> There are 4 major components in Machine Learning Training API.

Author: Changed as per suggestion.

### Model

![model](./media/model.png)

> Model is a wrapper component that has the topology of layers, optimizers, datasets.

Author: Done

The model performs training and saves the updated parameters that can later be used for inference.

> Please note that only a sequential neural network is supported for the time being.

Author: Done

> 

Author: Done

```c
// Create model
ml_train_model_h model;
ml_train_model_construct(&model);

/* Configure model(omitted for brevity) */

// Compile model, this freezes model and cannot modify model afterwards.
ml_train_model_compile(model, "loss=cross", "batch_size=16", NULL);
// run model
ml_train_model_run(model, "epochs=2", "save_path=model.bin", NULL);

// destroy after use
ml_train_model_destroy(model);
```

A number of properties can be set at `ml_train_model_compile` and `ml_train_model_run` phase:

Function | Key | Value | Description
-------- | --- | ----- | -----------
`ml_train_model_compile` | loss      | (categorical)| Loss function to be set

> &#xfeff;                 |           | cross        | cross entropy loss

Author: Done

&#xfeff;                    | flatten            | (boolean)     | flatten shape to c:h:w -> 1:1:c*h*w
`ML_TRAIN_LAYER_TYPE_INPUT` |                    |               | Input layer
&#xfeff;                    | normalization      | (boolean)     | normalize input if true
&#xfeff;                    | standardization    | (boolean)     | standardize input if true
`ML_TRAIN_LAYER_TYPE_FC`    |                    |               | Fully connected layer
&#xfeff;                    | unit               | (integer)     | number of outputs

### Optimizer

Optimizer determines how to update model parameters according to loss from prediction.
Currently, Stochastic Gradient Descent optimizer and Adam optimizer are supported.

```c
// Create optimizer
ml_train_optimizer_h optimizer;
ml_train_optimizer_create(&optimizer, ML_TRAIN_OPTIMIZER_TYPE_SGD);

// configure optimizer
ml_train_optimizer_set_property(optimizer, "learning_rate=0.001", NULL);

// after configuring optimizer to model
// you do not need to destroy optimizer since ownership is transferred to the model.
ml_train_model_set_optimizer(model, optimizer);
```

> Available properties for each optimizer type are as follows:

Reviewer 3: Suggestion:

Following are the available properties for each optimizer type:

Type | Key | value | Description
---------- | --- | ----- | -----------
(Universal props)                   |                    |               | Universal props that applies to every layer
&#xfeff;                            | learning_rate      | (float)       | Initial learning rate for the optimizer
`ML_TRAIN_OPTIMIZER_TYPE_SGD`       |                    |               | Stochastic Gradient Descent optimizer
`ML_TRAIN_OPTIMIZER_TYPE_ADAM`      |                    |               | Adam optimizer
&#xfeff;                            | decay_steps        | (float)       | Decay steps
&#xfeff;                            | decay_rate         | (float)       | Decay rate
&#xfeff;                            | beta1              | (float)       | beta1 coefficient for adam
&#xfeff;                            | beta2              | (float)       | beta2 coefficient for adam
&#xfeff;                            | epsilon            | (float)       | epsilon coefficient for adam

### Dataset

Dataset is in charge of feeding data into the model.

> It can either be created from a callback function or created from a file.

Reviewer 3: Please change to:

The dataset can either be.....

Detail will be discussed in [upcoming](#configure-the-model) section.

```c
// Create dataset
ml_train_dataset_h dataset;
ml_train_dataset_create_with_generator(&dataset, generator_train_cb, generator_valid_cb, generator_test_cb);

// configure dataset
ml_train_dataset_set_property(dataset, "buffer_size=100", NULL);

// after set dataset to model,
// you do not need to destroy dataset since ownership is transferred to the model.
ml_train_model_set_dataset(model, dataset);
```

## Construct a Model

A model can be constructed with `ml_train_model_construct`.
If you have a file that describes the model, the file can be used to construct initially with `ml_train_model_construct_with_file`.

> Even if the model is constructed from a file, Switching/modifying/setting a component is possible until compiling with `ml_train_model_compile`.

Author: Changed accordingly

Decay_rate = 0.96 # for the decay_rate for the decayed learning rate
Decay_steps = 1000       # decay step for the exponential decayed learning rate
beta1 = 0.9     # beta 1 for adam
beta2 = 0.9999  # beta 2 for adam
epsilon = 1e-7  # epsilon for adam

#### Model compile related properties
batch_size = 9
loss = cross      # Cost(loss) function : mse (mean squared error)
                        #                       cross (cross entropy)

####  Model run related properties
Epochs = 20     # Epochs
save_path = "model.bin"   # model path to save / read parameters

[DataSet] # Special section that describes dataset.
BufferSize=9
TrainData="trainingSet.dat"
ValidData="validationSet.dat"
LabelData="label.dat"

# Layer Sections, each section name refers to name of the layer
[inputlayer]
Type = input
Input_Shape = 1:1:62720 # Input Layer Dimension channel:height:width
Normalization = true

[outputlayer]
Type = fully_connected
Unit = 2    # Output Layer Dimension ( = Weight Width )
bias_initializer = zeros
weight_initializer = xavier_uniform
Activation = sigmoid  # activation : sigmoid, softmax
Weight_Decay = l2norm
weight_Decay_Lambda = 0.005
```

> Some restrictions must be kept:

Reviewer 3: The following restrictions must be adhered to:

Author: Done

 * Model file must have a `[Model]` section.
 * Model file must have at least one layer.
 * Valid keys must have valid properties (while invalid keys in each section will be ignored.)

Please note that all paths are relative to the current working directory unless stating an absolute path.
It is recommended to set `save_path` and `Dataset` from the code over describing inside the model file.

> Following example constructs model from INI file

Reviewer 3: The following example constructs model from an INI file:

```c
char *res_path = app_get_resource_path();
char model_path[1024];
ml_train_model_h model;

snprintf(model_path, sizeof(model_path), "%s/model.ini", res_path);
free(res_path);

status = ml_train_model_construct_with_conf(model_path, &model);
if(status != ML_ERROR_NONE) {
  // handle error
}
```

### Construct a Model on the Code

An empty model can be constructed with `ml_train_model_construct`.

## Configure the Model

After constructing a model, the model can be configured. This section provides example code to reproduce model description from [Create Model from INI Formatted File](#create-model-from-ini-formatted-file)

Except that:
 * Relative path is changed to dynamic app resource and data path.
 * Model related properties (which can be set at compile / run phase)
 * Demonstration about `ml_train_dataset_create_with_generator` which can't be covered in the description file.

> 

Reviewer 3: Please rephrase to use the Tizen writing style and tone.

Author: I skimmed through https://github.com/Samsung/tizen-docs/tree/master/styleguide but, I am not sure what defines `Tizen writing style and tone` . I rephrased a bit though. Could you elaborate more on this topic if modification isn't enought?

First, an empty model needs to be created.

```c
ml_train_model_h model;
ml_train_model_construct(&model);
```

### Add a Layer

> `ml_train_model_add_layer` appends a layer to the end of the graph in the model.

Author: Done

status = ml_train_model_add_layer(model, layers[1]);
```

### Set an Optimizer

Creating and setting `optimizer` to a model can be done in the same manner as `layer`

```c
status = ml_train_optimizer_create(&optimizer, ML_TRAIN_OPTIMIZER_TYPE_ADAM);
status = ml_train_optimizer_set_property(optimizer, "learning_rate=0.0001",
                                                    "decay_rate=0.96",
                                                    "decay_steps=1000",
                                                    "beta1=0.002",
                                                    "beta2=0.001",
                                                    "epsilon=1e-7", NULL);
status = ml_train_model_set_optimizer(model, optimizer);
```

### Set a Dataset

There are two ways to create a dataset. One is from a file, and another one is from a callback.
In either fashion, you need to provide streams of tensor data and one-hot-encoded labels.

#### Set a Dataset from a File

To create a `dataset` from a file, a training set and a label set must be provided. A validation set and a test set can be provided if needed.

> A label set is a file that has actual labels each in a line. Please refer to the example below.

Author: Done

```
airplane
automobile
bird
cat
deer
dog
frog
horse
ship
truck
```

Each dataset except for the label set should contain raw float array data and one-hot-encoded labels.

```
[float array for data1][label(on-hot encoded) for data1][float array][label]...
```

After preparing the label set and dataset, create `dataset` as follows:

```c
int status = ML_ERROR_NONE;
ml_train_dataset_h dataset;

char *res_path = app_get_resource_path();
char train_path[1024];
char label_prop[1024];

snprintf(train_path, sizeof(train_path), "%s/training.dat", res_path);
snprintf(label_prop, sizeof(label_prop), "label_data=%s/label.dat", res_path);
free(res_path);

status = ml_train_dataset_create_with_file(&dataset, train_path);
if(status != ML_ERROR_NONE) {
  // handle error
}

status = ml_train_dataset_property(dataset, label_prop,
                                   "buffer_size=9", NULL);
status = ml_train_model_set_dataset(model, dataset);
```

> Note that `buffer_size` can be set for dataset.

Author: Could you add reasoning for this? 

In the style guide, [!NOTE] is for information the user should notice even if skimming. This is not notable information rather an explanation about the code above.

> Note that `buffer_size` can be set for dataset.

Reviewer 3: Thank you for the clarification. In that case, please remove the word "Note that".

 * @param[in] user_data private data for the callback
 * @retval status for handling error
 */
int get_train_data(float **data, float **label, bool *last, void *user_data) {
  /* code that fills data, label and last */
  return ML_ERROR_NONE;
}
```

And a dataset can be created from the callback function.

```c
int status = ML_ERROR_NONE;
ml_train_dataset_h dataset;

// validation and test callback can be omitted.
status = ml_train_dataset_create_with_generator(&dataset, get_train_data,
                                                NULL, NULL);
```

## Compile the Model

Compiling a model finalizes the model with loss.
Once compiled, any modification to the properties of the model.
Adding layers or changing the optimizer/dataset of the model will not be permitted as well.

```c
int status = ML_ERROR_NONE;

status = ml_train_model_compile(model, "loss=cross", "batch_size=9", NULL);)
```

## Train the Model

Now, the model is ready to train. Train model as below.

```c
int status = ML_ERROR_NONE;

status = ml_train_model_run(model, "epochs=20", "save_path=model.bin", NULL);)
```

## Destroy the Model

After training, the model should be destroyed with `ml_train_model_destroy`.

> Note that `ml_train_model_add_layer`, `ml_train_set_optimizer`, `ml_train_set_dataset` transferrers ownership to `model`.

Reviewer 3: Please change the sentence structure and use Note tag

Author: Done

&#xfeff;                            | beta2              | (float)       | beta2 coefficient for adam
&#xfeff;                            | epsilon            | (float)       | epsilon coefficient for adam

### Dataset

Dataset is in charge of feeding data into the model.
The dataset can either be created from a callback function or created from a file.
For more information, see [configure the model](#configure-the-model) section.

Following code is example of handling dataset:

```c
// Create dataset
ml_train_dataset_h dataset;
ml_train_dataset_create_with_generator(&dataset, generator_train_cb, generator_valid_cb, generator_test_cb);

// configure dataset
ml_train_dataset_set_property(dataset, "buffer_size=100", NULL);

// after setting a dataset to model,
// you do not need to destroy dataset since ownership is transferred to the model.
ml_train_model_set_dataset(model, dataset);
```

## Construct a model

A model can be constructed with `ml_train_model_construct`.
If you have a file that describes the model, the file can be used to construct initially with `ml_train_model_construct_with_file`.

> Even if the model is constructed from a file, Switching, modifying or setting a component is possible until compiling with `ml_train_model_compile`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Even if the model is constructed from a file, switching, modifying or setting a component is possible only until you compile with `ml_train_model_compile`.
```

epsilon = 1e-7  # epsilon for adam

#### Model compile related properties
batch_size = 9
loss = cross      # Cost(loss) function : mse (mean squared error)
                        #                       cross (cross entropy)

####  Model run related properties
Epochs = 20     # Epochs
save_path = "model.bin"   # model path to save / read parameters

[DataSet] # Special section that describes dataset.
BufferSize=9
TrainData="trainingSet.dat"
ValidData="validationSet.dat"
LabelData="label.dat"

# Layer Sections, each section name refers to name of the layer
[inputlayer]
Type = input
Input_Shape = 1:1:62720 # Input Layer Dimension channel:height:width
Normalization = true

[outputlayer]
Type = fully_connected
Unit = 2    # Output Layer Dimension ( = Weight Width )
bias_initializer = zeros
weight_initializer = xavier_uniform
Activation = sigmoid  # activation : sigmoid, softmax
weight_regularizer = l2norm
weight_regularizer_constant = 0.005
```

The following restrictions must be adhered to:

 * Model file must have a `[Model]` section.
 * Model file must have at least one layer.
 * Valid keys must have valid properties (while invalid keys in each section will be ignored.)

> [!NOTE]

Reviewer 3: Global: Please add the right angular bracket before the note and the sentence:

> [!NOTE]
> All paths are relative to the current working directory unless stating an absolute path. It is recommended to set `save_path` and `Dataset` from the code over describing inside the model file.

All paths are relative to the current working directory unless stating an absolute path.
It is recommended to set `save_path` and `Dataset` from the code over describing inside the model file.

Following example constructs model from INI file:

```c
char *res_path = app_get_resource_path();
char model_path[1024];
ml_train_model_h model;

snprintf(model_path, sizeof(model_path), "%s/model.ini", res_path);
free(res_path);

status = ml_train_model_construct_with_conf(model_path, &model);
if(status != ML_ERROR_NONE) {
  // handle error
}
```

### Construct a model on code

An empty model can be constructed with `ml_train_model_construct`.

## Configure the model

After constructing a model, the model can be configured.

> [!NOTE]

Reviewer 3: Please fix the usage of Note style in the entire file.

    * @param[in] user_data private data for the callback
    * @retval status for handling error
    */
    int get_train_data(float **data, float **label, bool *last, void *user_data) {
      /* code that fills data, label and last */
      return ML_ERROR_NONE;
    }
    ```

2. Create a dataset from the callback function:

    ```c
    int status = ML_ERROR_NONE;
    ml_train_dataset_h dataset;

    // validation and test callback can be omitted.
    status = ml_train_dataset_create_with_generator(&dataset, get_train_data,
                                                    NULL, NULL);
    ```

## Compile the model

Compiling a model finalizes the model with loss.
Once compiled, any modification to the properties of the model.
Adding layers or changing the optimizer/dataset of the model will not be permitted as well:

```c
int status = ML_ERROR_NONE;

status = ml_train_model_compile(model, "loss=cross", "batch_size=9", NULL);)
```

## Train the model

Now, the model is ready to train. Train model as below:

```c
int status = ML_ERROR_NONE;

status = ml_train_model_run(model, "epochs=20", "save_path=model.bin", NULL);)
```

## Destroy the model

> After training, the model should be destroyed with `ml_train_model_destroy`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
After training, the model must be destroyed with `ml_train_model_destroy`.
```
